README.md, before:

# swiss-arrows

A collection of arrow macros.

![trystero](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/archive/a/a9/20060119154504!Trystero-small.png)

## Usage

```
[swiss-arrows "0.0.4"]
```

```
(use '[swiss-arrows.core])
```

###Overview

**-<>** The Diamond Wand

**<<-** The Back Arrow

**-<** , **-<:p** The Furcula, Parallel Furcula

**-<<** , **-<<:p** The Trystero Furcula, Parallel Trystero Furcula

**-<><** , **-<><:p** The Diamond Fishing Rod, Parallel Diamond Fishing Rod

###A Generalization of the Arrow

*The Diamond Wand* - similar to -> or ->> except that the flow of execution is passed through specified <> positions in each of the forms.

```
(-<> 0
     (* <> 5)
     (vector 1 2 <> 3 4))
 => [1 2 0 3 4]
```

The diamond wand also supports literals:

```
 ;; map
 (-<> 'foo {:a <> :b 'bar}) => {:a 'foo :b 'bar}

 ;; vector
 (-<> 10 [1 2 3 <> 4 5])    => [1 2 3 10 4 5]
```

###The Back Arrow

This is simply ->> with its arguments reversed, convenient in some cases.

```
 (<<-
  (let [x 'nonsense])
  (if-not x 'foo)
  (let [more 'blah] more)) => 'blah
```

###Branching Arrows

The following six arrows (three, and their parallel counterparts) are *branching* arrows, in contrast with the "threading" or "nesting" arrows we have seen thus far.  The following example demonstrates how branching and nesting arrows can work together to cleanly express a flow of control. Here our first branching arrow, The Furcula, passes the result of (+ 1 2) to each of the successive forms, which is then nested out horizontally into further expressions using traditional arrows.

```
(-< (+ 1 2)
    (->> vector (repeat 3))
    (-> (* 2) list)
    (list 4))                =>    '[([3] [3] [3]) (6) (3 4)]
```


*The Furcula* - a branching arrow using the -> form placement convention. Expands to a let performing the initial operation, and then individual expressions using it. In the parallel version, the individual expressions are evaluated in futures.

```
(-< (+ 1 2) (list 2) (list 3) (list 4)) => '[(3 2) (3 3) (3 4)]

;; The Parallel Furcula

(-<:p (+ 1 2) (list 2) (list 3) (list 4)) => '[(3 2) (3 3) (3 4)]
```

*The Trystero Furcula* - another branching arrow. Same idea as -<, except it uses the ->> form placement convention.

```
(-<< (+ 1 2) (list 2 1) (list 5 7) (list 9 4)) => '[(2 1 3) (5 7 3) (9 4 3)]

;; Parallel Trystero Furcula

(-<<:p (+ 1 2) (list 2 1) (list 5 7) (list 9 4)) => '[(2 1 3) (5 7 3) (9 4 3)]
```

*The Diamond Fishing Rod* - another branching arrow. Same idea as -< and -<<, except it uses the -<> form placement convention.

```
(-<>< (+ 1 2) [<> 2 1] [5 <> 7] [9 4 <>]) => '[(3 2 1) (5 3 7) (9 4 3)]

;; Parallel Diamond Fishing Rod

(-<><:p (+ 1 2) [<> 2 1] [5 <> 7] [9 4 <>]) => '[(3 2 1) (5 3 7) (9 4 3)]
```

See https://github.com/rplevy/swiss-arrows/blob/master/test/swiss_arrows/test/core.clj for more examples.

## License

Credits:

Walter Tetzner, Stephen Compall, and I designed and implemented something similar to the "diamond wand" a couple of years ago.

Stephen Compall suggested the "back-arrow" in a conversation about a recently announced library, as a better solution (TODO: remember the name of that library).

Thanks to Roman Perepelitsa and Stephen Compall for constructive feedback and ideas.

Copyright (C) 2012 Robert P. Levy

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License, the same as Clojure.

Commit message:

implement how you would intuitively want a symbol form to be interpreted by -<> (issue #6 from Alex)

README.md, after:

# swiss-arrows

A collection of arrow macros.

![trystero](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/archive/a/a9/20060119154504!Trystero-small.png)

## Usage

### Installation

http://clojars.org/swiss-arrows

### Getting Started

```
(use '[swiss-arrows.core])
```
 
### Overview

**-<>** The Diamond Wand

**<<-** The Back Arrow

**-<** , **-<:p** The Furcula, Parallel Furcula

**-<<** , **-<<:p** The Trystero Furcula, Parallel Trystero Furcula

**-<><** , **-<><:p** The Diamond Fishing Rod, Parallel Diamond Fishing Rod

### A Generalization of the Arrow

*The Diamond Wand* - similar to -> or ->> except that the flow of execution is passed through specified <> positions in each of the forms.

```
(-<> 0
     (* <> 5)
     (vector 1 2 <> 3 4))
 => [1 2 0 3 4]
```

The diamond wand also supports literals:

```
 ;; map
 (-<> 'foo {:a <> :b 'bar}) => {:a 'foo :b 'bar}

 ;; vector
 (-<> 10 [1 2 3 <> 4 5])    => [1 2 3 10 4 5]
```

Like -> & ->> interpret a symbol x as (x), -<> interprets x as (x <>)

```
 (-<> :a
      (map <> [{:a 1} {:a 2}])
      (map (partial + 2) <>)
      reverse)
 => [4 3]
```

### The Back Arrow

This is simply ->> with its arguments reversed, convenient in some cases.

```
 (<<-
  (let [x 'nonsense])
  (if-not x 'foo)
  (let [more 'blah] more)) => 'blah
```

### Branching Arrows

The following six arrows (three, and their parallel counterparts) are *branching* arrows, in contrast with the "threading" or "nesting" arrows we have seen thus far.  The following example demonstrates how branching and nesting arrows can work together to cleanly express a flow of control. Here our first branching arrow, The Furcula, passes the result of (+ 1 2) to each of the successive forms, which is then nested out horizontally into further expressions using traditional arrows.

```
(-< (+ 1 2)
    (->> vector (repeat 3))
    (-> (* 2) list)
    (list 4))                =>    '[([3] [3] [3]) (6) (3 4)]
```


*The Furcula* - a branching arrow using the -> form placement convention. Expands to a let performing the initial operation, and then individual expressions using it. In the parallel version, the individual expressions are evaluated in futures.

```
(-< (+ 1 2) (list 2) (list 3) (list 4)) => '[(3 2) (3 3) (3 4)]

;; The Parallel Furcula

(-<:p (+ 1 2) (list 2) (list 3) (list 4)) => '[(3 2) (3 3) (3 4)]
```

*The Trystero Furcula* - another branching arrow. Same idea as -<, except it uses the ->> form placement convention.

```
(-<< (+ 1 2) (list 2 1) (list 5 7) (list 9 4)) => '[(2 1 3) (5 7 3) (9 4 3)]

;; Parallel Trystero Furcula

(-<<:p (+ 1 2) (list 2 1) (list 5 7) (list 9 4)) => '[(2 1 3) (5 7 3) (9 4 3)]
```

*The Diamond Fishing Rod* - another branching arrow. Same idea as -< and -<<, except it uses the -<> form placement convention.

```
(-<>< (+ 1 2) [<> 2 1] [5 <> 7] [9 4 <>]) => '[(3 2 1) (5 3 7) (9 4 3)]

;; Parallel Diamond Fishing Rod

(-<><:p (+ 1 2) [<> 2 1] [5 <> 7] [9 4 <>]) => '[(3 2 1) (5 3 7) (9 4 3)]
```

See https://github.com/rplevy/swiss-arrows/blob/master/test/swiss_arrows/test/core.clj for more examples.

## License

Credits:

Walter Tetzner, Stephen Compall, and I designed and implemented something similar to the "diamond wand" a couple of years ago.

Stephen Compall suggested the "back-arrow" in a conversation about a recently announced library, as a better solution (TODO: remember the name of that library).

Thanks to Alex Baranosky, Roman Perepelitsa and Stephen Compall for constructive feedback and ideas.

Copyright (C) 2012 Robert P. Levy

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License, the same as Clojure.
